You got less than you wanted?
>> Yeah.
>> I got more than I wanted. I'm Wesley
Morris and this is Cannonball today. My
baby's a runner.
You
are a stone.
This is an exciting Oscar's year for me.
I find myself genuinely not knowing
what's going to happen this Sunday.
But, you know, for the last couple of
months it's been looking like Paul
Thomas Anderson's won battle after
another is going to win many
of its 13 nominations, including Best
Picture and possibly Supporting Actress
for Teyana Taylor's point-blank
performance as Perfidia Beverly Hills.
>> This is an announcement of a
[__] revolution.
>> And this woman has found herself
in two sexual relationships with a white
man.
>> You like black girls?
I love them.
>> But the acclaim for this movie and for
Teyana Taylor's performance
they've been raising some complicated
feelings for some of us. Ever since it
opened in September, there's been this
conversation happening that maybe not
everybody was privy to. A debate over
Taylor's character
and the movie's overall treatment of
black women. What are they doing? And
why is Paul Thomas Anderson doing them
like that?
I've been having a lot of conversations
with some of the black women in my life
and some of them are like, here we go
again. Another movie that is reducing
feminist badassness to basically having
a big cinematic ass. For months now, I
have been wanting to discuss this movie
with one of those women, my pal Daphne
Brooks. And this feels like the week to
do it. Days before the Oscars because I
think it's one thing to hate the way a
movie treats a character, it's another
thing to hate that and then watch the
entire movie industrial complex
celebrate and reward it. Daphne teaches
African American and American studies at
Yale University, and her work does a lot
of deep thinking about art, culture, in
this country through the lens of black
feminism.
Daphne Brooks, here comes the
cannonball.
Daphne Brooks.
>> Wesley Morris.
>> Uh thank you for coming back.
I mean, not it's not even that you're
coming back. This was This conversation
was willed
into being
by conversations you and I were having.
Mostly where I was just like
in class with you.
And
you know, I I'll just sort of set the
scene.
Um
I go to this movie with one of our
producers, the wonderful John White.
It's a nice September morning. I believe
it is crisp. It's one of those September
days where you're like, oh yes.
Not only is it time for the seasons to
change, fall movie season is here.
And we are about to sit down with one of
the greats, Paul Thomas Anderson.
And you keep the face coming, Daphne.
Just keep Keep it coming.
>> Can I just say at the outset of all
this, I love Maya Rudolph so much. I
love her so much.
>> This is inadmissible. Inadmissible.
>> her.
>> At least for now. So, I sit down, John
and I sit down
in our seats. This is in an IMAX
theater, the Lincoln Plaza, like 68th
and Broadway.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> fine, fine, fine IMAX. Fine IMAX.
And uh
the opening shot of this movie is Teyana
Taylor walking on an overpass.
And she's watching an She's She's
looking She's doing surveillance work as
part of this
radical leftist
organization. She's looking down at a at
a military camp.
Or like a like a migrant detention
center.
>> Yes.
>> Um that the military is overseeing.
>> I don't know any of that. All I know is
the energy out of a out of the gate is
high for me.
>> You declare war,
[__]
>> And for the next 33 minutes, I am
watching I'm watching this and I'm just
like this is
one of the most exciting and I would say
excited
depictions of and and
ways of thinking about
black women that I have seen
in a Hollywood movie. I mean, I know the
bar is low, but it gave me something It
really was giving me something to
respond to. Now,
I will stop there.
>> No.
>> And just say that, you know, I leave the
movie high as a kite.
>> Yes.
>> Both John and me were just like, "Ooh,
John, too? Okay."
>> I
>> We had a great time.
>> Okay.
>> And I also just felt like what was
happening was I was seeing a director
who I felt had gotten very comfortable
living in the past.
And a past that did not involve any of
the people in this movie
>> Yes.
>> finally catching up to the 21st century.
And I don't want to say making up for
lost time, but like actually seeing a
world that he, for whatever reason, was
not comfortable or ready to depict.
>> Can I just say that that was the reason
why we went opening weekend. I I had
been waiting for this film because I was
waiting for
Paul Thomas Anderson to tell me some
things that he'd never told me before,
you know? Um
>> Well, I guess he I guess he didn't tell
me anything. I guess he told you some
things, right? Because when I got when I
got home
>> Mhm.
>> Oh.
About a about opening weekend of this
movie.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> There's a text waiting for me
from one Daphne A. Brooks.
Here is the text message.
I mean, basically you start by saying
Listen, I don't want to bother you.
But I need to.
I had to write tonight after seeing this
PT Anderson thing.
It's a black feminist 911 emergency.
And then you say so much to say. I mean,
I almost walked out on it, Wesley.
Yes, it's about white male weakness.
That's what I, Wesley, said was also
going on here.
But also at the expense of women
appearing as anything more than fever
dreamed, worn-out caricatures working in
the service of white patriarchal
anxieties and obsessions.
Um
It also struck as a deeply lazy when it
came to engaging post-60s radical
grassroots insurgent movements.
I mean, I just want you Can you sit with
me on opening night?
>> Mhm.
>> You and your husband Maco and see it.
>> Uh when did you feel compelled to press
the nine?
In your non-white right
>> Right. Opening scene. Tiana is in the
first frame of the film.
But then soon after very soon after
it's the scene between Tiana's character
and Shawn I used to love him Penn as the
indelible character of Steven J.
Lockjaw.
Right? What unfolds is
one of the
oldest and most familiar kind of charged
um
scenes of encounter between white men
and black women in the history of this
country
um to the extent that it is highly
racialized, sexualized,
framed in the conditions of violence.
>> What's your name, [__]
>> Right. So, I'll just say like she finds
him sleeping in his quarters
>> I'm Captain Steven J. Lockjaw.
>> at this detention center.
>> My name is [__] Riot Beverly Hills and
this is a decoration of war.
>> where all of these
brown men and women are being kept.
>> Yes.
>> And
the instant he sees her, his lips start
getting licked by his own tongue.
>> Yeah.
>> And her words to him are here's the
mission.
>> The message is clear.
>> military man
>> Free bodies, free bodies, free choices,
and free from [__] fear.
>> Mhm.
>> But she said something before that,
which I didn't remember.
>> Uh
>> Wake up, soldier boy.
>> until I
>> Uh-huh.
>> You died and went to [__] heaven,
[__] Put your arms to the side
so I can see you.
>> You died and went to [__] heaven.
>> In [__] heaven, yes, that's what she
says.
>> Okay.
>> Um what's your name, [__]
>> Mhm.
>> So, we're already in we're already she's
already sexualized the situation, right?
>> But she has seen him she's already seen
him lick his lips.
>> So, I, you know, he is he's setting the
I mean, I don't know he's setting the
terms. She's trying to set the terms,
but she is picking up what he is putting
down and she's like speaking his
language.
>> Absolutely.
>> And, you know, she then says what she
says about what the French 75, this
organization, is here for and to do. And
his only response to that is another
lick lip and he says
sweet thing.
>> Right? Sweet thing.
>> Um
>> Which is
in
>> uh one of the great Chaka Khan songs.
>> a sweet thing.
Okay, fair, you know, but also
incidentally the name of the third
archetype in Nina Simone's 1965 black
feminist anthem for women.
>> Yes.
>> In which Nina carries listeners through
this historical genealogy of black
women's racial and sexual exploitation
and oppression.
>> is tan, my hair is fine. My hair is
fine, my hips invite you.
>> my mouth like wine. No, no, don't do it,
>> No, no, don't do it, Wesley.
>> Anyone who has money
to buy
>> What do they call me?
>> My name is sweet thing.
>> Yeah.
So, you know, Lotoya's here to play,
which Profetia responds to by saying,
"Right now on your [__] feet. Since
we playing, get up.
Get it up. Sorry.
>> Get up. Get up. Get up. Get up. Get up.
Get up. Get up. Get up. Get up. Get up.
>> How can I
Trying to rewrite it even in this
moment, right? So, what do we have here?
We got an Audre Lorde 911, right? No,
Audre Lorde, the late great black queer
feminist.
>> Because she's picked up his hat. She's
picked up his gun.
>> And and she's got his tools.
>> And I'm I'm I'm there. I'm there in the
theater thinking, "Master's tools
will never dismantle the master's
house." This is something Audre Lorde
taught me when I was a freshman
in college at Berkeley.
You know, so maybe on the one hand it's
one of Profetia's fallacies, right? Her
inability to recognize that, you know,
core fundamental black feminist,
you know, ideological view of the world
um from the get-go.
>> So,
are we talking about here um
the the Tiana Taylor's uh the depiction
of Perfidia Beverly Hills as this
sexualized creature in the world of the
film. I mean, she is
like how
you know, this woman is
sort of driving she's driving the action
the first 33 minutes of this movie.
>> I mean,
okay.
>> I'm I'm Sure. I'm offering this to you.
What do you What is your experience of
what she is doing? And is this like is
this the source of your
primary frustration with the movie?
>> Well, I mean, my source of the primary
frustration with the film which in my
conversations with
sisters in the ivory tower
and sisters at the salon, so you know,
talk about all the different ranges of
places in which we interact and
collaborate and think together and
express our feelings and
you know, just
think about culture. Um
my my primary frustration is
you know, the the inability for the film
to
to lift up and really engage her inner
life world. You know, there we we we
one of the troubling kind of riddles um
about Perfidia's relationship with
Ghetto Pat played by Leonardo DiCaprio
um who becomes Bob later. Um
but you know, one of the troubling
riddles about
their intimacy is the extent to which we
are seeing you know, this kind of, you
know, voracious coupling and sexuality,
which in and of itself
>> a bomb, she wants to have sex and he
wants to have sex with her. He wants to
have sex with her.
>> Right? They they engage in these deadly
operations and she's like, "Come on,
baby, let's lay down in the field and
have sex right now." You know? And I
mean, there's a there's a kind of
there's an interesting metaphor to that,
right? Um because, you know,
black feminists, again, have given us,
you know, pivotal knowledge about the
connections between um you know, desire
and
personal desire and political desire.
You know, you think about Toni Cade
Bambara's famous line in which she says,
"The role of the artist is to make the
revolution irresistible." Or, you know,
of course, Audre Lorde's classic essay,
"The Uses of the Erotic," in which she's
she's really wrestling with, talking
through, theorizing
the ways in which, you know, she she
describes it as recognizing the power of
the erotic erotic within ourselves that
can give us this energy to pursue
genuine change, okay? So, you know, if
I'm being generous here, there's
something interesting about um
Perfidia's
claiming of her sexuality as being
central to her political life world as
well. But we don't know what it is. I
just want to know. I want to know about
the line of the long line of, you know,
black revolutionary women that who gave
birth to her. That's, you know,
referenced by
um Grandma Minnie. We should talk about
that name.
Um in the film, you know?
>> My child comes from a whole line of
revolutionaries.
And you look so lost.
>> Well, I mean, just immediately, Grandma
Minnie is like, to me, it like an
explicit reference to Minnie Riperton.
>> Absolutely.
>> Paul Thomas Anderson's wife, Maya
Rudolph's mother.
>> Yes.
>> And one of the great singers
>> you know, that we had for, you know, the
1970s.
>> and synonymous with soul,
you know, music culture and desire, you
know, and pleasure and community
building. Yeah, mhm.
>> So,
I guess we're thinking about like what
the emergency is here.
>> Mhm.
>> And is it like are you Is this movie
striking you as being glib with the
thing that,
you know, Grandma Minnie in the movie is
talking about what this this this
legacy, this lineage of revolutionaries,
which, you know, is a kind of stand-in
for just any black woman who got up,
right? It is for a particular kind of
political struggle that does not
necessarily involve guns, bombs, and you
know,
>> Yeah.
>> bank robberies.
>> Um Hard to talk about.
>> It's about survival. It's about living
life. It's about creation. So, is the
movie just Is it being too glib
with that history in some way? Is it I
mean, I'm just thinking through what
Okay.
>> Absolutely.
That history just hangs so heavily over
representations of black womanhood that
to have it interfaced with the language
of black revolution without a fuller
dissection of the connections between
the two
and in some ways a kind of cursory and
in some ways a really a cursory kind of
engagement.
>> Mhm. Mhm.
>> I mean, that it's about the choices that
were made in the film
as opposed to
the film at large. It's about the kinds
of paths that were taken in telling the
story, you know, um at hand that felt
um
just incredibly painful. And and then
>> Did Was there anybody Were there any pro
people?
>> No.
No. No, but I'll tell you something and
this
>> I mean, they're interesting.
>> I've got them in my life cuz it's funny
like after a month of the movie being
out
>> Yeah.
>> and me hearing from, you know, lots of
people who were just like like
>> Yeah.
>> soul hurts.
>> Yes.
>> There was another wave of moviegoers and
I'm talking I mean this like I'm talking
about Black Widow.
>> Yes.
>> Who were just like
I kind of loved it.
>> Interesting.
>> Well, I was
This was fine with me. This was fine
with me.
>> So, here's here's what I'll say about
that that I have encountered this
with
uh and it's a generational
divide for for me. Like I've I have a
wonderful goddaughter
white, boyfriend is black
you know
very much of our intellectual, social,
political worlds in terms of thinking
about progressive politics, black
liberation
loved the film or liked it. I don't want
to put it on
be careful about how I I paraphrase
them. Um her best friend, black queer
woman
black queer
woman partner also enjoyed the film.
These are millennials.
Right?
>> Mhm.
>> Um so, I mean, I'm kind of
I'm interested in that. And even when
I've talked about
>> run a gamut. Yeah. Okay.
>> run a gamut.
>> Okay.
>> Um but I mean, I hear that. But, let
listen.
All right, so
can I just
can I tell you
what I think is happening
>> Yes.
Okay.
>> for me?
>> Yeah.
>> Um
it did not feel good
>> Mhm.
>> to get that text from you.
>> No.
>> And then to be Well, don't feel bad.
But, I'm just saying like it didn't feel
good.
>> Mhm.
>> It does not feel good to love something
>> and only have a few days to love it
until the avalanche of what the [__] is
wrong with you
starts coming your way.
>> Which I didn't say to you, by the way. I
didn't say what the [__] is wrong with
you.
>> but it you weren't
I mean
you're not an ad hominem person and it's
not personal, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> Mhm.
>> I just don't like the feeling
>> that
people I care about, right?
People I love, you know
from from my sister
to my sister
hate this movie
that I had a good time at and we watched
the same thing.
And the thing that really hurt them
thrilled me.
>> Yeah.
>> But, listen.
I
What thrilled me
about this movie
>> Tell me.
>> to be in these 33 minutes with Perfídia
Beverly Hills
>> Mhm.
>> She exists both inside the narrative and
and above it. And beyond it.
>> Right. Absolutely.
>> There are a lot of scenes of her, you
know
I'm going to I'm going to set myself up
for for for you to spike.
But,
I mean, there's a way in which I think
it's sort of she's fully she's
omniscient.
>> I wish that she were. Uh-huh. Okay. Mhm.
>> Oh, how about this? I will strike that.
She's omnipresent. She's omnipresent.
>> Sure.
>> Right?
>> I mean
>> Her voice is everywhere.
>> Yes.
>> Her choices are everywhere.
>> Uh-huh.
>> Like at some point she's narrating she's
doing narrating.
>> Right.
>> You know, she walks out on this family
>> Yes.
>> in pursuit of
just
independence, I'll say, you know, to
sort of paraphrase
>> I mean, she's also a fugitive, you know,
you know.
>> Right. Right. Yeah, she's she's going
she is going on the run, but she's not
taking everybody with them.
>> And her her her explanation for that is
not you know, I cannot endanger you
people. I'm I need to I need to run.
It's like I need to do me.
>> I need to do me.
>> I think
what Teyana Taylor is performing in some
way
are these questions of
not simply human liberation, but
individual
freedom from a collective movement,
right?
>> Sure.
>> Like the running that she is doing is is
is to
>> Yes.
>> like outside the world of the story of
the movie. Right?
>> Yes.
>> She is trying to escape
I think the very thing you and I are
talking about.
>> Right.
>> Right?
>> She is running from the problem. The way
she talks about Pat and leaving Charlene
>> Yes.
>> behind
>> Where are you going right now?
>> Stop talking to me. I go as I please.
>> You realize
we're family now, right? You don't have
to do this anymore.
>> You realize I put myself first, right?
>> And her mother and her family, like,
this history is too much. It is too much
and I have to escape it. Right. You
know? I
I feel like the choice that is being
made here is the hardest choice.
It's not just turning everybody in.
>> Yes.
>> Right? It's not just like betraying your
organization. It is It is like cutting
It is like severing your limb
to keep your individuality.
>> Sure.
>> I I don't know. I just
>> So so give me, you know, let's go, Paul.
Let's Let's add another 30 minutes and
and and
and see what happens when you allow a
black woman to cut loose from
>> But she's trying. You know what I'm
>> Yeah.
>> when I say this. I thought about Duck
Duck Amuck.
>> Duck Amuck?
>> The old Daffy Duck that like the the the
the the great Daffy Duck cartoon where
they keep trying to draw him into the
like they keep trying to animate him
>> Sure.
>> to stay in the world of the celluloid
and he keeps being dissatisfied with the
parameters being put around him. I feel
like Perfida Beverly Hills
Teyana Taylor is doing Duck Amuck.
>> Listen, you know, the end of Hortense
Spillers classic essay Mama's Baby Pop
is maybe is actually congealing for this
kind of moment in which we can imagine
black women being able to break out of
the very caricatures that she begins her
essay with, which include lines like,
and this is, you know, Peaches, Brown
Sugar, Sapphire, Earth Mother, Auntie,
Granny, God's Holy Fool, a Miss Ebony
First, or Black Woman at the Podium, all
right? Which I mean it also conversant
with Nina Simone and those archetypes
that she's, you know, moving us through
in four women. You know, by the end of
the essay
that the famous last line, actually
claiming the monstrosity of a female
with the potential to name, which her
culture imposes in blindness, Sapphire
might rewrite after all a radically
different text for a female empowerment.
Sure, let's have Perfidy rewrite rewrite
that text, but I need to see it.
>> I think
>> I need to hear it. I need to feel it.
>> This is But see, you got less than you
wanted.
>> Yeah.
>> I got more than I wanted.
>> Okay, sure. I mean,
you know, okay, go ahead.
>> I think this this this chase picture,
right? Yes.
This chase picture
it knows
if it knows anything, it at least knows
what
what it's running to and running from,
right?
I think this is it's obviously this
movie knows that it's playing with
you know, white supremacist
I mean, I guess the movie would say
evil, but it's not it's not evil. It's
like casual, right?
>> Yeah, the endemic ways in which white
supremacy constitutes our everyday
lives. I
for me
I worry about settling, you know, with
regards to a film like this, that it is
doing so much and at the same time
not enough, so little. I want to be
careful with that, but you know, right?
So little for some of us. And that
um
you know, how rarely it is, right? That
we we have, you know, popcorn cinema,
the the multiplex,
you know, putting black women on screen
and saying these things.
>> I am what black power looks like.
Leave my face.
I'm the fresh 75.
>> You know, make films in which you can
have Jungle [__] say I am black power
and for that to actually have some
substance and some meaning
um behind it. Um I I need that. I want
that. If we're going to If we're going
to hear it for the first time, as far as
I can recall, in a major motion picture
in recent years by a white director, by
someone other than Spike Lee, you know,
I need more. And it's And to treat treat
these characters and this topic with
some care, precisely because it's been
so, you know, just egregiously alighted
across the history of film.
>> I think my favorite thing about my
relationship with you, Daphne, is
it isn't that
this is not about a white man can't do
it. This is not about like that kind of
>> Mhm.
>> um
authority representational
>> Yeah.
>> uh
>> Right. No, no, no.
No.
>> No, we are not. No. No.
>> But what we are talking about, though,
>> Mhm.
>> is
I think what you what you do with
the the pieces once you put them on the
board.
>> Mhm. Yes.
>> You know, do you know how to play
>> Yes.
>> Do you know how to play chess?
>> Yeah. And what do you need to know in
order to play chess?
>> I Mhm. Yeah, what do you need to know?
What do you need to know? What do you
need to know? I mean, I feel like this
is a very successful chess match.
>> Mhm.
Oh.
You For me or
>> that for me
the reason that I have No.
>> No, no, just
Oh, to both
>> Anderson should be clear. You and I, I
mean, I don't know what game we're
playing. We're playing something way
beyond that.
But,
you know, one of the things that sort of
like that hurt me
about, you know, you know, in those
first couple of weeks like while
absorbing all these really thoughtful,
impassioned, cogent, cogent, cogent
um
ways of thinking about how this movie is
lazy, failing, not doing enough, not
going far enough.
>> Frustrating.
>> But, for me, the thing that hurt was
or the thing I understood about the hurt
was I have been here, too. I have felt
this so many other times and I sat with
John Wyatt,
>> Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm.
>> yes, a producer of this show, and
I was like, "Huh?
I'm not feeling the thing
that I normally feel when I watch
anything that involves a depiction of
us."
I kind of want to just like spend a
little bit of time like talking about
the history, how it repeats, how come
Oscar night it could proliferate once
more
in a in a in a good way and a bad way,
perhaps. Who knows?
>> In a year when Sanders is
>> Well, yes, the
>> in our world.
>> Yes, you're you're picking up what I'm
putting down. I I think I was trying to
articulate to you the feeling that I
have
um not infrequently when there is some
conversation happening just among you
know, black people
about art, about popular art.
And, you know, the many different ways
to feel about it.
And
it really is about
the depiction of us
really no matter who's doing the
depicting to be honest, right?
>> Mhm.
>> And when it feels good and when it
doesn't feel good.
>> Mhm.
>> And I
always find
that one of the major flash points for
this conversation about how we're
feeling with respect to how we're
being represented
is the Academy Awards.
>> Aha.
>> You're going to watch, right?
>> Leslie, I have not missed an Oscar
ceremony since 1977.
Which is
>> Ooh, that's the that's the
>> That's ground zero.
>> a year.
>> It's ground zero.
I mean, and that was the year that I
fell in love with moviegoing because of
Star Wars. So
>> Mhm.
>> I had an ear ache. I was laid up on our
couch in Menlo Park, California, and Mom
and Dad had wrapped me in blankets and I
was crying cuz I had the ear ache and I
just kept saying, "I have to watch the
Oscars now."
>> That's Rocky.
>> Yes, it's Rocky. I mean, I remember
>> Right, so it's before
>> Rocky was your first Oscar.
>> It was, and I remember seeing Sylvester
Stallone throwing the popcorn around. He
had popcorn that he'd brought with him.
So, yes. I mean, I guess
I will be watching.
>> I think the reason to bring it, I mean,
do like I feel like award shows really
are like one of the great crucibles of
race
and culture in this country. It just
Am I Am I
Where Like you agree with that, right?
That's not a crazy thing to say.
>> No, I mean, I think that you and I are
special though in thinking that.
I don't think most people think that.
>> I just sort of I mean, I'll take you
through a quick spin through the There
have been in in the entire 98 Academy
Award We're at nine
>> Yeah.
>> 97 Academy Award podcast.
>> Sure.
>> Or, you know, 90 97 trophies have been
given out for supporting actress.
>> Yes.
>> 11 of them have been won by black or
brown women.
>> Which is a high watermark compared to
the
best actress category.
>> Hattie McDaniel's the first one to win
in 1940.
>> The Hattie McDaniel.
>> For Gone with the Wind. She's the first
black woman to win
any Oscar.
Um but for supporting actress
>> Fellow members of the motion picture
industry and honored guests.
This is one of the happiest moments of
my life.
>> Whoopi Goldberg in 1991.
>> Whoopi Goldberg.
>> Jennifer Hudson in 2000
7.
>> Jennifer Hudson.
>> Um Mo'Nique in 2010 for Precious.
>> Mo'Nique.
In Precious based on the novel Push by
Sapphire.
>> Octavia Spencer in 2012 for The Help.
>> Octavia Spencer.
>> Mhm. Made that [__] pie.
Sorry. Sorry.
>> We We got to We'll We'll get there.
Lupita Nyong'o
>> Lupita Nyong'o.
>> for 12 Years a Slave. Um Viola Davis
>> Viola Davis.
>> for Fences. A major major major category
fraud. But Well, not major major, but
that is category fraud. Yeah. She
shouldn't have been a supporting
actress. Best actress. A lot of those
scenes by herself.
Um
Uh then Regina King for If Beale Street
Could Talk.
>> REGINA KING.
>> WHO'S AFTER THAT? Is it I think that's
Ariana DeBose for West Side Story.
>> Yes.
>> Right. Ariana DeBose West Side Story.
>> Then Da'Vine Joy Randolph
>> Da'Vine
>> Uh for The Holdovers. And then last
year's winner is Zoe Saldana.
>> Zoe Saldana
>> for
Emilia Perez.
>> Mhm.
>> Um
and it's just the reason I bring this up
uh in light of, you know, Teyonah Parris
who we've been talking about
>> Mhm.
>> is like to really think about like
this mix of pride and
>> Mhm.
>> it's a mix of things sometimes, right?
Like what is the role?
>> What is being What is being rewarded
here from the standpoint of like the for
many, many years like a very white
Academy? Yes.
What is the What is the work being done?
What is the performance being given? And
what happens to the winner in the wake
of her win?
>> Yes.
>> I mean, we're thinking about Teyonah
Parris possibly winning, right?
>> Mhm.
>> For a for a character that has
created a lot of headaches for a lot of
people.
And a lot of that is attached to what we
know to be these historical problems of
representation. So, what
>> Mhm.
>> How is it
What is the divorcing here if there is a
divorce between being so happy that this
woman is going to win an Academy Award?
She'll be the 12th winner in this
category in the in 98 Oscars.
And like really not loving what she was
asked to do in the movie or the like
being not loving the way the movie uses
the performance.
>> Not loving the way the movie uses the
performance and uses the character and
>> Right.
>> under uses the character and deploys the
character for
other characters' interests that
I think end up
undermining her own character's
interests. And I think that, you know,
we know from some of those examples like
Octavia Butler in The Help that
>> Octavia Spencer Spencer
>> Octavia Spencer. Oh my god, OCTAVIA
BUTLER.
>> OCTAVIA
>> BUTLER. GIVE ME SOME Octavia Butler in
like not in The Help, but just acting in
anything.
>> We know that Octavia Spencer's
Oscar-winning performance in The Help
was also a spectacularized
and emph- infamously associated with
this kind of, you know,
um
abject form of resistance. Like, you
know, she makes a [__] pie, whether it's
her [__] or not.
>> You know.
>> Eat my [__]
It is a kind of, you know, this
this trafficking in
a very
um circumscribed form of resistance,
which is also, you know, repulsive and
um and and intimate, but does not have
any kind of um
you know,
reflection on a larger sort of systemic,
you know, um intervention in
>> If something is being kept going here,
not Yes.
>> Yes.
>> Right? You know what I mean? I mean,
there's a continuum and it's still by,
you know, 2012, it's lingered right?
>> Right?
>> It's it's lingered into the 21st
century. And this is the thing that
hurts, right?
>> But this is the thing that hurts because
what keeps going in one battle after
another. I mean, it's built into the
name, but I I you know, one of the
questions about Tiana Taylor's character
is, you know, to what extent is she
still within the confines of the weave?
>> Right? Of this thing that keeps going.
And it is one battle after another,
right?
>> It is. This is the Academy Awards. Every
single one of these winners.
>> Yeah.
>> It's worth
>> Yes.
>> We have fought over most of these people
and the work they're doing or the movie
they're doing the work in.
You know, Mo'Nique.
>> Yes, right.
>> You know?
>> But We still are fighting about that.
>> But that's why Winnie me.
>> Winnie Winnie Masuku, who plays who's in
Sinners, yes. Nominated also for best
supporting actress.
>> Right. That's why Winnie Masuku's
character,
um, and really actually
you know, the women in that film are
quite fascinating.
>> I mean, pale pale moon all day long.
>> Yeah. Okay, you know? But I mean,
there's a range of, you know, women in
this film and
Winnie being a hoodoo
conjurer healer,
um, really talk about the voice that is
all over in the film. I mean, she gives
us the kind of framing for considering,
you know, the how the veil works and you
know, the spiritual stakes. Yeah. So,
the metaphysical stakes. Yeah. So,
there's the I I'm interested in the
contrast between those characters. Not
to pit these two sisters off because
they each did extraordinary work with
the material given to them.
Um, but what the Academy is willing to
award,
um, is is always a source of peril and
anxiety to go back to that word again.
Um,
yes. All right. Daphne, I'm going to
leave you with the last word. Um,
why is it important to talk about this
film
again the way that we've been talking
about it?
And what does it mean what is it going
to mean for it to
to potentially win
a lot
of Hollywood's highest accolade
if that's what winds up happening?
Well,
yeah, I think this film
as much as it leaves
folks like me wanting.
It is
laying on the table some complicated
questions about
especially the ways in which people of
color decide
to align themselves either with
hegemony, with dominant culture, with
white supremacist patriarchy,
um or in resistance to it. And we didn't
even really talk about all of these
different informants who are of of color
or marginalized. Like, you know, the
non-binary friend of Willa's. And you
know, there's just a whole string of
them. We also didn't talk about the
security guard who's
who's shot by Perfidia, which is also
very painful. Why? Why are we doing
that? At least explain that to me, what
that is. So, I guess I think that for
this
what we're
engaging in a beautiful struggle with
each other and with the cultural object
in question and and living with it in a
way that I initially wasn't willing to
do because I felt so hurt by it. And you
know, if anything pedagogically
oh, you know, me, myself, my colleagues,
we're all trying to encourage
film goers, music lovers, art lovers,
book lovers, to just
spend time, you know, to spend time with
these objects and to really question
them. Um they, you know, in this case
and in many other cases, especially in
film, we know this is a an entire
community of people brought this to
life. This is PTA's vision, but it's
entire ensemble.
And being able to really take seriously
that labor and to fight with it um and
try to extrapolate meaning from it
as deeply as we can, especially with the
topics that this film traffics in
of course feels more urgent than ever in
2026. And so that feels very heavy for
me. And I keep coming back to, you know,
the title of Ava DuVernay's
you know, brilliant mini-series about
the now exonerated Central Park Five,
you know, When They See Us. So you know,
the question of when they see us, and
they are seeing us right now in this
film and you know throwing all the
praise at it, you know, what are they
seeing? And because there's so much left
for us to want in this film, I
I feel an ache about what they're
potentially seeing and also not seeing.
>> Daphne Brooks, thanks for doing this.
>> Anytime, Wesley. I'm not going to text
you anymore.
>> You better stop that.
You better keep texting me.
We're back. And um when you watch the
Academy Awards this weekend, if you're
going to watch the Academy Awards
you know, they're going to give all the
competitive Oscars away during the
broadcast. But
there is a very special award that they
gave away months ago. It's the honorary
Oscar. And this year's class, five
stars. Just one of the great classes.
Wynn Thomas, one of Spike Lee's
production designers. He's done like 11
of his movies. Malcolm X, Crooklyn, Do
the Right Thing, one of the great
production design ideas. Seems like it's
just set on a street, but why do I think
it's Sesame Street? Why do I think it's
a Greek tragedy? Anyway, some guy named
Tom Cruise is another one of these
recipients. But my number one absolute
favorite honorary Oscar recipient for
is Debbie Allen.
>> Thank you.
Thank you so much for this
glorious golden moment in the sun with
Oscar.
>> The first time I was ever conscious of
her was as Miss Grant on TV's Fame. And
you know, she's got that great line that
I think she also says in the movie,
which is like, you know, you want fame?
>> You want fame? Well, fame costs. And
right here is where you start paying in
sweat.
>> It's just
paying in sweat. That woman paid in
sweat and probably more. Long resume.
I I could spend an hour just reading the
resume. Actress,
producer, a trained dancer, an elite
choreographer. She is one of the most
successful directors of television
shows, maybe in TV history. She's
definitely the most successful black
woman to direct anything for television.
The Parkers, Grey's Anatomy, she did
some Scandals, lots of great television.
And she did the choreography for seven
Academy Awards. Like she did the
choreography for those broadcasts.
>> can sing, they can dance. After all Miss
This is Grant.
>> And she represents a kind of old school
showbiz, like big, bold, flashy.
Like a lot of, you know, she was
bringing she was bringing all kinds of
badonkadonk and jazz hands and big kicks
and just rhythm, battement.
She did it seven times. And all seven
times, you know, that she was a
controversial person at the Oscars cuz
for the same reason that when she went
to ballet school as a teenager, she
tried to get into some fancy ballet
academy, they're like, "Oh, no, not in
here with that you don't." She just had
too much battement. And this is a thing
that happens to black women all the time
with ballet. They're just told they're
not built right. So, she's like, "I'mma
figure it out." And she did. She became
a very successful dancer. And she
brought all of those ideas of kinetic
movement and
you know, many different approaches to
dance from different parts of the world.
They were all happening simultaneously
in her dance numbers at the Academy
Awards. And people were like,
"This is a lot." And it was. Sometimes
it was too much. It was extra extra.
Read all about it. There were people
flying across Do the teacups in Beauty
and the Beast need to be Do they need
battement?
It doesn't matter cuz Debbie Allen made
sure they had some.
And I would just say there's no way that
we're getting out of here today without
talking about
one of the greatest things Debbie Allen
ever did. And it combines her own
dancing and her own ideas of
choreography with one of the great pop
songs, I would say, of all time.
At the 1985 Academy Awards, funky year
at the Oscars.
And Debbie Allen did Kenny Loggins'
Footloose.
When I say she did Kenny Loggins'
Footloose, I mean
she put her foot in it. She put her
elbow in it. She put both her shoulders
in it and shimmied them to death.
SHE WORE THIS TIGHT red bodysuit and
it's just like got a extra like this
woman is so extra that her cummerbund is
wearing a cummerbund. And there's a
moment where two dancers are like laying
on the floor
and they have their legs up and like a
rock gets kicked that's kind of frozen
and I mean these guys it is at a 90°
angle from left leg to right leg.
And this woman is making her own 90°
angle and just putting one leg on top of
this other guy's leg and they're just
bending bending bending and she's just
like "Yeehaw!"
I mean she's just like her leg is up and
she's just working it working it working
it. I don't think the Oscars had ever
seen this kind of energy before. Is she
teaching an aerobics class? Is she an
Alvin Ailey? Where are we right now? Is
it modern dance? Is it MTV? We don't
know but I am riveted and I'm also a
little bit on fire
because that's what Debbie Allen did.
I just was always moved by how much she
meant everything. This is like there is
more passion in this woman's like pinky
finger than there is than most people
will ever experience in a lifetime. She
could like go like that and there like
lightning power would just shoot out of
the finger.
She's just amazing and I just love the
idea that this person who
acts
produces, directs, and choreographs
like with equal passion
um
is now the winner of an Academy Award
uh for her contributions to the
entertainment business.
>> Tonight is a victory, a victory of
a victory for creativity and courage and
resilience
and passion
and work.
>> This is a woman who definitely paid in
sweat. And her reward for all that sweat
is now an Academy Award with her name on
it.
>> I'm definitely taking
him to work with me
and keeping him close to remind me not
of what I've done but what I am yet
need and have to do. God bless you.
>> Amen.